This 0.9 release of Alembic has a dual purpose: it is a beta release,
but it is also the beginning of a conversation.  We are fairly
confident that the Alembic library, as it exists now, performs well
and is bug free.  We are at the beginning of building the tools
that will leverage the features that Alembic provides.
By making our beta version of this library public,
we hope that the attention of the community will ferret out subtle
problems or insufficiently supported use-cases that are meaningful to
the industry as a whole.

However, in addition to bug-hunting and performance tuning we are also
seeking feedback from the visual effects community on the style,
explorability, and extensibility of the user-facing API layers.
Specifically:

* Design and API of AbcGeom?
  We have worked to make AbcGeom both a statement of industry
  consensus of what certain geometric primitives are (polygon meshes,
  for example), but to also be extensible, so advanced users can
  quickly create their own high-level schemas to support other
  types of data, such as lights, bezier curves and so forth.  Have
  we struck the right balance between extensibility and standardization?

* Design and API of Abc
  The "Abc" API layer is what we consider the lowest-level of the
  Alembic library that authors of plug-ins or utilities will use.  It
  has grown from a set of "thin" wrapper classes into a full-fledged
  API for reading and writing arbitrary data, and this ancestry shows
  in its design.  To use the "Abc" API, you will need to use
  classes and types defined in the "AbcCoreAbstract" and the "Util"
  libraries. We already have some simplification plans in mind for 1.0,
  but we want to know if there are parts of this API that you find hard
  to understand or use.

There are several items that we know aren't in version 0.9. This list is the starting point for our plans as we work toward 1.0:
* Python bindings for the public-facing API.
* Missing AbcGeom schemas:
  * NURBs surfaces
  * Cameras
  * Maya-like transform stack
  * Curves
  * Optional validation of data on write
* A full-featured Maya importer and exporter
* More complete documentation of the Abc and AbcGeom layers
* An Alembic file stitcher
* Renderman plugin
* Katana/Arnold plugin
* 32-bit support (currently only 64-bit architectures are supported)
* Exploration of Windows support (currently, we believe Alembic works under
  Windows but we haven't tried all the variations between 32 bit vs. 64 bit,
  and Windows XP, Windows Vista, and Windows 7)

These topics, and the questions that descend from them, aren't meant
to be prescriptive but rather representative of the feedback we'd like
to get from our users.  Alembic is stable and usable, but far from
finished, and any comments, criticisms or insights that you can
provide are more than welcome. We hope you'll share your thoughts
and feedback with us on alembic-discussion@googlegroups.com.
To join the alembic-discussion mailing list, please visit
http://groups.google.com/group/alembic-discussion.

Thanks,
The Alembic Team
